Clean up the Help Centre (#5238)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Help_Centre/en.md

If your account has been restricted, you'll likely know why after a brief conversation with the support team.

> In situations where we are absolutely assured that foul play or wrongdoing has taken place, we will ask you to wait out a period of **three (3) months** from the date of your last offense before we will consider an appeal from you to let you back into the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In situations where we are absolutely assured that foul play or wrongdoing has taken place, we will ask you to wait out a period of **three (3) months** from the date of your last offense before we consider an appeal from you to let you back into the game.
```

Emailing from your registration address is a huge bonus here, as well as any other information you can provide that only the holder of the account would know.

Please do not include replay or score data in your ticket - we cannot use this to verify your ownership of the account.

#### What is this 'Bancho authentication error' I keep receiving?

**This typically happens when there are network issues between you and our servers.**

There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:

##### Have you entered your password correctly?

If you've forgotten what your password is, you can use the [password recovery page](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/password-reset) to recover access to your account.

##### Are you using any proxy servers or VPNs?

**Disabling these before attempting to connect again will likely fix your issue.**

Some VPN providers and proxy servers simply do not work with osu! for whatever reason.

#### I'm still getting the error!

**We'll need a `network.log` file from you to figure out what's going on if neither of the above solutions work.**

> For information on how to get a netwrok.log file to send to us, see [log files](/wiki/Help_Centre#log_files).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information on how to get a network.log file to send to us, see [log files](/wiki/Help_Centre#log_files).
```

If this succeeds, you will be able to reset your own password without the assistance of the support staff.

If this does not work for you, please send us a support ticket immediately to [accounts@ppy.sh](mailto:accounts@ppy.sh) with as much identifying information as possible that will help us identify you as the owner of your account.

Emailing from your registration address is a huge bonus here, as well as any other information you can provide that only the holder of the account would know.

Please do not include replay or score data in your ticket - we cannot use this to verify your ownership of the account.

> #### What is this 'Bancho authentication error' I keep on receiving?
> 
> **This typically happens when there are networking issues between you and our servers.**
> 
> There's a few things we can try to resolve this issue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### What is this 'Bancho authentication error' I keep receiving?

**This typically happens when there are network issues between you and our servers.**

There are a few things you can try to resolve this issue:
```

> ##### Have you entered your password correctly?

Reviewer: please unify the headings throughout the article, they should be written either from the reader's point of view ("I can't ..."), or the writer's ("Have you ... ?"), but not from both at the same time (example: here and a couple of lines above)

Author: I'm not sure if some of the changes I made are the best way to go about it, but now all level 5 headings are from the writer's POV (and the level 4 headings are reader's POV) 

If you meant all of them(4 & 5 combined) should be either writers or readers pov, I personally don't think that would work very well. They work pretty well as they are now in my opinion.

> **This is the most obvious one.**

Reviewer: pointless remark

If you've forgotten what your password is, you can use the [password recovery page](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/password-reset) to recover access to your account.

##### Are you using any proxy servers or VPNs?

**Disabling these before attempting to connect again will likely fix your issue.**

Some VPN providers and proxy servers simply do not work with osu! for whatever reason.

##### I'm still getting the error!

**We'll need a `network.log` file from you to figure out what's going on if neither of the above solutions work.**

> Check out the article at the bottom of this page on how to get a log file to send to us.

Reviewer: a direct link right here would really help

Author: I agree. Would this: [log files](/wiki/Help_Centre#log_files) be the correct format? just double checking

Rarely, you might need to contact your Internet Service Provider (ISP) to inquire about these problems. Certain ISPs have historically had issues connecting to osu!, usually due to poor routing.

#### The website is telling me that I have tried to sign in too many times!

**This is a temporary protection measure after repeated failures to access your account. Try signing in again after 10-20 minutes.**

If this happens to you, simply wait for a while and try to sign in a little later.

A couple of hours, at the absolute maximum, will clear the status for most people and allow them to sign in again.

> #### I'm not receive any emails from osu!/I forgot my email address!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### I'm not receiving any emails from osu!/I forgot my email address!
```

**Yes, absolutely!**

> If you have purchased (or been gifted) a [supporter tag](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/support) at any point, you will be able to change your username **once** for free. This username change can be redeemed on the [osu!store](https://osu.ppy.sh/store/products/32) page.

Reviewer 2: Usually "at", not "on". "from" also works.
```suggestion
If you have purchased (or been gifted) a [supporter tag](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/support) at any point, you will be able to change your username **once** for free. This username change can be redeemed at the [osu!store](https://osu.ppy.sh/store/products/32) page.
```

Author: My mistake, reverted back.

> At any point thereafter, you may purchase a Player Name Change to change your username to whatever you wish. However, each change will become progressively more expensive - the second will cost $8 USD, the third $16 USD, and so on, up to a cap of $100 USD. We do this to prevent people from abusing the system to change their names in rapid succession.

Author: Yeah, only changed to Player Name Change because that's what its called on the store. will change to what you suggested.

> At any point thereafter, you may purchase a [username change](https://osu.ppy.sh/store/products/32) to change your username to whatever you wish. However, each change will become progressively more expensive - the second will cost $8 USD, the third $16 USD, and so on, up to a cap of $100 USD. We do this to prevent people from abusing the system to change their names in rapid succession.

Reviewer: this needs to be rewritten to something that doesn't say "... you may purchase a **username change** to **change your username** ..." or "... you will be able to **change your username** once for free. This **username change** ..."

Author: Does it not sound right currently or?

> At any point thereafter, you may purchase a [purchase a username change](https://osu.ppy.sh/store/products/32) to change your username to whatever you wish. However, each change will become progressively more expensive - the second will cost $8 USD, the third $16 USD, and so on, up to a cap of $100 USD. We do this to prevent people from abusing the system to change their names in rapid succession.

Reviewer 3: Not sure if "purchase a" needs to be part of the link here. If you decide to keep it though, it needs to be removed earlier in the sentence. e.g.
```suggestion
At any point thereafter, you may [purchase a username change](https://osu.ppy.sh/store/products/32) to change your username to whatever you wish. However, each change will become progressively more expensive - the second will cost $8 USD, the third $16 USD, and so on, up to a cap of $100 USD. We do this to prevent people from abusing the system to change their names in rapid succession.
```

Other games encounter this issue a lot with what is commonly known as "smurfs" - accounts with low playtimes and totals that inflate the rankings and prevent other users from playing competitively.

In osu!, we are very much against users having multiple accounts, and we enforce a strict rule of only one account per person, ever. You get to play on the first account you ever registered with us, and that's it!

If you currently have more than one account, please contact [accounts@ppy.sh](mailto:accounts@ppy.sh) to get things sorted out.

#### Is it possible to start over/have my account's statistics wiped/have my account deleted?

**Not at the moment.**

We are considering extra 'score reset' purchases from the osu!store for the truly hardcore players who wish nothing but perfection in their stats, but as it currently stands, we cannot wipe an account's statistics for you.

This doesn't mean you can make a new account to do the same thing, either! Having multiple accounts is against the rules, and we will disable any such accounts that are brought to our attention.

> If you are covered by the European Union, then you have the option to delete your account. You can read more about this on the [Privacy Page](https://osu.ppy.sh/legal/en/Privacy#your-rights-and-control). If you are not covered by the European Union, then we will not delete your account.

Reviewer: I think the last sentence here is redundant. if you want to add something, better mention that the account removal is final and can not be reverted instead

Author: Yeah you're right, changing this section a bit anyways because of what Ephemeral said.

> If you are covered by the European Union, then you have the option to delete your account. You can read more about this on the [Privacy Page](https://osu.ppy.sh/legal/en/Privacy#your-rights-and-control). If you are not covered by the European Union, then we will not delete your account.

Reviewer 4: this should be under a new header titled "Can I delete my account?"

all users can file a deletion request, even those not covered by the GDPR (this is a recent change and needs to be propagated throughout other articles as well)

#### Can I play on a computer that another osu! user has used before?

**Yes, absolutely. This includes shared PCs like netcafes or PC bangs.**

**So long as you are playing on only your own account**, you can play osu! anywhere!

If you are playing from a public place, make sure to keep a close eye on your account security. Shared computers are often prime targets for malicious software.

#### Can I get a list of all maps I've played or downloaded?

**You can see all maps you've played on the website.**

> **If you have an active supporter tag**, you can see all maps you have submitted a score on by going to the [beatmap list page](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets), clicking "more search options", then selecting the "PLAYED" filter. Alternatively, you can use [this link](https://osu.ppy.sh/p/beatmaplist?m=-1&r=7&g=0&la=0&ra=) to access the filtered page directly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**If you have an active supporter tag**, you can see all maps you have submitted a score on by going to the [beatmap list page](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets), clicking "more search options", then selecting the "PLAYED" filter. Alternatively, you can use [this link](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets?played=played) to access the filtered page directly.
```
New site link

Author: Yup, fixed those up. Thank you mr Death

> **If you have an active supporter tag**, you can see all maps you have submitted a score on by going to the [beatmap list page](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets), clicking "more search options", then selecting the "PLAYED" filter. Alternatively, you can use [this link](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets?played=played) to access the filtered page directly.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**If you have an active supporter tag**, you can see all maps you have submitted a score on, by going to the [beatmap list page](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets), clicking "More Search Options", then selecting the "Played" filter. Alternatively, you can use [this link](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets?played=played) to access the filtered page directly.

Reviewer 5: not sure what is the reason for the ```Played``` to be fully capitalized

Author: Because on the website it is fully capitalized ~~Nevermind it's not anymore~~ ,will change. Will also change the case of More Search Features, but I'm pretty sure a comma there is unnecessary.

We are considering extra 'score reset' purchases from the osu!store for the truly hardcore players who wish nothing but perfection in their stats, but as it currently stands, we cannot wipe an account's statistics for you.

This doesn't mean you can make a new account to do the same thing, either! Having multiple accounts is against the rules, and we will disable any such accounts that are brought to our attention.

If you are covered by the European Union, then you have the option to delete your account. You can read more about this on the [Privacy page](/legal/Privacy#your-rights-and-control). If you are not covered by the European Union, then we will not delete your account.

#### Can I play on a computer that another osu! user has used before?

**Yes, absolutely. This includes shared PCs like netcafes or PC bangs.**

**So long as you are playing on only your own account**, you can play osu! anywhere!

If you are playing from a public place, make sure to keep a close eye on your account security. Shared computers are often prime targets for malicious software. 

#### Can I get a list of all maps I've played or downloaded?

**You can see all maps you've played on the website.**

> **If you have an active supporter tag**, you can see all maps you have submitted a score on by going to the [beatmap list page](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets), then clicking "more search options". Then select the "PLAYED" filter. Alternatively, you can use [this link](https://osu.ppy.sh/p/beatmaplist?m=-1&r=7&g=0&la=0&ra=) to access the filtered page directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**If you have an active supporter tag**, you can see all maps you have submitted a score on by going to the [beatmap list page](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets), clicking "more search options", then selecting the "PLAYED" filter. Alternatively, you can use [this link](https://osu.ppy.sh/p/beatmaplist?m=-1&r=7&g=0&la=0&ra=) to access the filtered page directly.
```

Unfortunately, we do not keep track of all maps a user has downloaded, so it is impossible to get a list of them. The closest you could be to it would be using the aforementioned filter to recover at least the maps you've played before.

---

## Client

### Bugs & Crashes

#### I have changed my settings, and now I can't start osu! or it freezes

**Resetting osu! back to its default settings will fix this in most cases.**

Follow these steps to restore osu! to its default settings:

> 1. Hold down the `Shift` key on your keyboard.
> 2. While holding `Shift`, double click the osu! icon on your desktop.
> 3. Continue holding `Shift` until you see the osu! recovery dialog prompt.
> 4. When the `osu! configuration` dialog opens, click the `reset settings` button.
> 5. If you still aren't having any luck, open the dialog again and click `repair osu!`.

Reviewer 2: Slightly overly detailed
```suggestion
1. Start osu! while holding down the `Shift` key on your keyboard.
2. Continue holding `Shift` until you see the osu! recovery dialog prompt.
3. When the `osu! configuration` dialog opens, click the `reset settings` button.
4. If you still aren't having any luck, open the dialog again and click `repair osu!`.
```

Author: yeah actually I agree, changed as suggested

#### Some of my beatmaps are missing!

**Make sure you are not grouping your beatmaps by anything in the top right of the screen (i.e. "grouping" should be set to "no grouping").**

If you've just downloaded a map, you may want to try refreshing your beatmap list by pressing `F5` at the song selection screen.

Make sure you are not limiting what maps are being displayed in the game options.

To check or change what beatmaps are displayed in the song select menu, try the following steps:

1. Open osu!.
2. Enter the `Options` menu or hit `Control` + `O`.
3. Type `song select` into the quick-search to jump straight to the option.
4. Make sure `Display beatmaps from` is set to 0 stars, and that `up to` is set to 10+ stars.

> ![](img/beatmapdiffdisp.png "The Diplay Beatmaps setting set to the correct values")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![](img/beatmapdiffdisp.png "Correct values of the Display Beatmaps setting")
```

If none of these methods work, as a last resort you can try forcing your beatmap database to be recreated. **Note that this will mark all your maps as "unplayed", so searching and grouping maps by fields that rely on date played will no longer work.**

To safely force your beatmap database to be recreated, try the following steps:

1. Open osu!.
2. Enter the `Options` menu or hit `Control` + `O`.
3. Click `Open osu! folder`.
4. Close osu!.
5. Find the `osu!.db` file located in the folder you just opened.
6. Right-click on it, then click `Rename`.
7. Rename it to anything. It does not matter what you rename it to, as long as it is not "osu!". Then press `Enter`.
8. Relaunch osu!.

#### My song list keeps scrolling!

**This is usually due to a faulty input device connected to your computer. Try unplugging any controllers or joysticks.**

> Applications which emulate or change keybindings such as *Xpadder* or *X-Mouse Button Control* may also cause these issues. Try disabling them if you use them for other games.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These issues may also be caused by applications which emulate key presses or change keybindings, such as *Xpadder*, or *X-Mouse Button Control*. If you use such applications for other games, disable them.
```

This can also happen due to issues with the numpad keys, as they can be used to scroll the song selection list. Pressing the `NumLock` key to disable the numpad and then pressing `9`, `8`, `3`, or `2` on the numpad will fix the issue.

You may also wish to check for any jammed or damaged buttons on your peripherals.

> #### I downloaded a Beatmap Pack, but osu! is always trying to "repair" the file!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### I downloaded a beatmap pack, but osu! is always trying to "repair" the file!
```

**You will need to extract the pack into your Songs directory.**

Most beatmap packs come in a `.rar` file format, which means they are a compressed archive of beatmap files. You will need to extract them using your utility of choice (we recommend [7-Zip](https://7-zip.org "7zip")) to your Songs directory first.

> Once all of the `.osz` files within the pack are in the Songs directory, hitting `F5` at the song selection menu will refresh the game's beatmap cache and load your new songs into the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all of the `.osz` files from the archive are in the Songs directory, hitting `F5` at the song selection menu will refresh the game's beatmap cache and load your new songs.
```

### Gameplay

#### My combo counter, score display or accuracy display is missing!

**Pressing `Shift` + `Tab` while playing will toggle the in-game HUD and allow you to see these elements again.**

> If you have changed the keybinding that toggles the scoreboard, this will not work. You can check which key it is set to in `Options` -> `Change keyboard bindings` -> `In-Game` -> `Toggle Scoreboard`. Then you can substitute that key in, in place of `Tab`. For example `Shift` + `V`.

Reviewer: choppy sentences read poorly

```suggestion
If you have changed the keybinding that toggles the scoreboard, this will not work. You can check which combination it is set to in `Options` -> `Change keyboard bindings` -> `In-Game` -> `Toggle Scoreboard`. Then you can substitute the key in place of `Tab` (for example, to make it `Shift` + `V`).
```

#### Some of my beatmaps are missing!

> **Make sure you are not grouping your beatmaps by anything in the top right of the screen, i.e. "grouping" should be set to "no grouping".**

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
**Make sure you are not grouping your beatmaps by anything in the top right of the screen (i.e. "grouping" should be set to "no grouping".)**
```
i.e is grammatically fine after a comma but it's just a bit odd

Reviewer 2: Alright, but the period should be outside the parentheses.

Author: True, thanks again:)

#### Some of my beatmaps are missing!

> **Make sure you are not grouping your beatmaps by anything in the top right of the screen, "grouping" should be set to "no grouping".**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Make sure you are not grouping your beatmaps by anything in the top right of the screen, i.e. "grouping" should be set to "no grouping".**
```

If you've just downloaded a map, you may want to try refreshing your beatmap list by pressing `F5` at the song selection screen.

Make sure you are not limiting what maps are being displayed in the game options.

To check or change what beatmaps are displayed in the song select menu, try the following steps:

1. Open osu!.

> 2. Enter the `Options` menu or hit `Control` + `O` by default.

Reviewer 2: People who change this binding usually know about it.
```suggestion
2. Enter the `Options` menu or hit `Control` + `O`.
```

3. Type `song select` into the quick-search to jump straight to the option.
4. Make sure `Display beatmaps from` is set to 0 stars, and that `to` is set to 10+ stars.

If none of these methods work, as a last resort you can try forcing your beatmap database to be recreated. **Note that this will mark all your maps as "unplayed", so searching and grouping maps by fields that rely on date played will no longer work.**

To safely force your beatmap database to be recreated, try the following steps:

1. Open osu!.

> 2. Enter the `Options` menu or hit `Control` + `O` by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Enter the `Options` menu or hit `Control` + `O`.
```

3. Click `Open osu! folder`
4. Close osu!.
5. Find the `osu!.db` file located in the folder you just opened.
6. Right click on it, then click `Rename`.

> 7. Rename it to anything, it does not matter what you rename it to, as long as it is not "osu!". Then press `Enter`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Rename it to anything. It does not matter what you rename it to, as long as it is not "osu!". Then press `Enter`.
```

8. Relaunch osu!.

#### My song list keeps scrolling!

**This is usually due to a faulty input device connected to your computer. Try unplugging any controllers or joysticks.**

Applications which emulate or change keybindings such as *Xpadder* or *X-Mouse Button Control* may also cause these issues. Try disabling them if you use them for other games.

This can also happen due to issues with the numpad keys, as they can be used to scroll the song selection list. Pressing the `NumLock` key to disable the numpad and then pressing `9`, `8`, `3`, or `2` on the numpad will fix the issue.

You may also wish to check for any jammed or damaged buttons on your peripherals.

#### I downloaded a Beatmap Pack, but osu! is always trying to "repair" the file!

**You will need to extract the pack into your Songs directory.**

> Most beatmap packs come in a `.rar` file format, which means they are a compressed archive of beatmap files. You will need to extract them using your utility of choice (we recommend [7-Zip](https://7-zip.org)) to your Songs directory first.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Most beatmap packs come in a `.rar` file format, which means they are a compressed archive of beatmap files. You will need to extract them using your utility of choice (we recommend [7-Zip](https://7-zip.org "7zip")) to your Songs directory first.
```

Once all of the `.osz` files within the pack are in the Songs directory, hitting `F5` at the song selection menu will refresh the game's beatmap cache and load your new songs into the game.

### Gameplay

#### My combo counter, score display or accuracy display is missing!

**Pressing `Shift` + `Tab` while playing will toggle the in-game HUD and allow you to see these elements again.**

> If you have changed the keybinding that toggles the scoreboard, this will not work. You can check which key it is set to in `Options` -> `Change keyboard bindings` -> `In-Game` -> `Toggle Scoreboard`. Then you can substiute that key in, in place of `tab`. For example `shift` + `v`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If you have changed the keybinding that toggles the scoreboard, this will not work. You can check which key it is set to in `Options` -> `Change keyboard bindings` -> `In-Game` -> `Toggle Scoreboard`. Then you can substiute that key in, in place of `Tab`. For example `Shift` + `V`.
```

Try closing any extra programs before playing osu! if you find that your scores aren't submitting and you are not having issues with connectivity otherwise.

##### Are your beatmap statuses correct?

**Sometimes the statuses of your beatmaps can get messed up, meaning the scores you set on them can't submit.**

> In the song select menu, check in the top left of the screen for any small icons, for example a ranked beatmap should display a blue arrow icon in the top left. If your beatmaps do not display any icon, or displays an incorrect icon, then your scores cannot submit. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the song select menu, check in the top left of the screen for any small icons, for example a ranked beatmap should display a blue arrow icon in the top left. If your beatmaps do not display any icon, or display an incorrect icon, then your scores cannot submit. 
```

Try closing any extra programs before playing osu! if you find that your scores aren't submitting and you are not having issues with connectivity otherwise.

> ##### Are the your beatmap statuses correct?

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
##### Are your beatmap statuses correct?
```

**Sometimes the statuses of your beatmaps can get messed up, meaning the scores you set on them can't submit.**

> In the song select menu, check in the top left of the screen for any small icons, for example a ranked beatmap should display a blue arrow icon in the top left. If your beatmaps do not display any icon, or an incorrect icon, then your scores cannot submit. 

Reviewer 2: Images would be helpful here

Author: Sorry, how do I add an image?

Reviewer 6: https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#images-1

also may want to refer to the [ASC criteria on images](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting#images) if you're not already familiar with them

Author: Thanks for the help, have added an image here

- If the default value (0) isn't working for you, try using the `Offset wizard` button to walk you through setting a new one.
- If this still doesn't help, you may want to try updating your sound card or motherboard audio drivers.

> #### I'm experiencing lag spikes or stuttering during play!

Reviewer 4: what's the rationale behind deleting this?

Reviewer: this paragraph, together w/ the one below ("My user page contents are missing"), is moved to another section -- search the exact text for the addition

Reviewer 4: aha, gotcha

To copy the results of the command, simply click and drag from the bottom of the output all the way to the top so that the information turns white, then right click to instantly copy it to your clipboard.

#### I received a server-side error when trying to play online!

**The servers could be having issues.**

> Check the [osu! server status page](https://status.ppy.sh/) to see if there are any ongoing issues with the servers.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Check the [osu! server status page](https://status.ppy.sh/ "status.pyy.sh") to see if there are any ongoing issues with the servers.
```

**This can also happen if you are using a shared internet connection, a proxy, or VPN.**

Try using another proxy or VPN provider - if all else fails, send in a support ticket via mail to [accounts@ppy.sh](mailto:accounts@ppy.sh).

If you are not using any of the above, then you will need to send in a support ticket, as your connection has likely been blacklisted in error.

> Tor or networks associated with the Tor relay will not connect to the game servers for the most part. This is to avoid malicious use.

Reviewer 6: probably shouldn't make it seem like the entire osu! team sees Tor as a malicious service
```suggestion
Tor or networks associated with the Tor relay will not connect to the game servers for the most part. Although we neither condemn nor endorse the use of Tor, we enforce this policy to avoid any potential bad actors using Tor.
```

Author: Very true lol, will change that.

All osu! branded tablets support raw input by default, and may have their sensitivity easily adjusted on the fly by using the raw input option in game and using the mouse sensitivity slider.

#### I'm experiencing lag spikes or stuttering during play!

> **There's many reasons why the game may perform inconsistently, from programs on your computer, to out-of-date drivers, or simply having some settings too high.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**There are many reasons why the game may perform inconsistently, from programs on your computer, to out-of-date drivers, or simply having some settings too high.**
```

All osu! branded tablets support raw input by default, and may have their sensitivity easily adjusted on the fly by using the raw input option in game and using the mouse sensitivity slider.

#### I'm experiencing lag spikes or stuttering during play!

**There's many reasons why the game may perform inconsistently, from programs on your computer, to out-of-date drivers, or simply having some settings too high.**

##### Do you have lots of programs open at the same time while playing osu!?

**Some background processes can fight with osu! for resources and make the game very unpleasant to play.**

Try closing some programs that you do not need open while playing the game and/or all of them.

##### Is your computer secure?

**Viruses, spyware, malware or other unwanted software can cause serious performance problems for even high-end computers.**

> Keep your computer clean and safe and you might notice an improvement. Try running a virus scan on your computer to find and get eliminate such issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keep your computer clean and safe and you might notice an improvement. Try running a virus scan on your computer to find and eliminate such issues.
```

Author: fixed all as suggested

All osu! branded tablets support raw input by default, and may have their sensitivity easily adjusted on the fly by using the raw input option in game and using the mouse sensitivity slider.

#### I'm experiencing lag spikes or stuttering during play!

**There's many reasons why the game may perform inconsistently, from programs on your computer, to out-of-date drivers, or simply having some settings too high.**

##### Do you have lots of programs open at the same time while playing osu!?

**Some background processes can fight with osu! for resources and make the game very unpleasant to play.**

Try closing some programs that you do not need open while playing the game and/or all of them.

##### Is your computer secure?

**Viruses, spyware, malware or other unwanted software can cause serious performance problems for even high-end computers.**

> Keep your computer clean and safe and you might notice an improvement. Try running a virus scan on your computer to find and get eleminate such issues.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Keep your computer clean and safe and you might notice an improvement. Try running a virus scan on your computer to find and get eliminate such issues.
```

Reviewer 5: typo oop

Author: I'm dumb, will double check for spelling errors, thanks.

In rare circumstances, support tickets from chronically offending users may be deliberately ignored, though the team will **always** tell you when they will no longer be responding to you first. If you have not received a notification like this, you do not need to worry about it!

> #### My user page contents are missing!

Reviewer 4: what's the rationale behind deleting this?

Author: Sorry for any confusion, this one was moved to line ~773 and changed to: My Me! page contents are missing! Because thats the correct name for the section on an osu! profile.

If you wish to prevent anyone not on your friendslist from sending you private messages, follow the following steps. **Please note: moderators are not affected by this functionality and can always PM you. If you feel a moderator is harassing you in spite of this, you should contact [our support team](mailto:support@ppy.sh).**

> 1. Enter the `Options` menu or hit `Control` + `O` by default.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Enter the `Options` menu or hit `Control` + `O`.
```

2. Type "block" to filter the options listing to the "In-game Chat" section.
3. Click on the setting that appears to enable it.

> Users who are not on your friendslist (/addfriend "user") can no longer contact you.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Users who are not on your friendslist can no longer contact you.
```

If you wish to prevent anyone not on your friendslist from sending you private messages, follow the following steps. **Please note: moderators are not affected by this functionality and can always PM you. If you feel a moderator is harassing you in spite of this, you should contact [our support team](mailto:support@ppy.sh).**

1. Enter the `Options` menu or hit `Control` + `O`.
2. Type "block" to filter the options listing to the "In-game Chat" section.
3. Click on the setting that appears to enable it.

> Users who are not on your friendslist can no longer contact you.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Users who are not on your friends list can no longer contact you.
```

##### Prevent any new forum private messages from reaching you

Go to your [account settings](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/account/edit) and click `block private messages from people not on your friends list` in the Privacy section. Private messages from users in your friends list will still reach you.

##### What if I'm still having problems with a user after blocking them?

**Never fear, our support staff will help you out.**

If a user is still harassing you via other means, or using their friends or someone else to circumvent your effort to block them, please send us an email at [support@ppy.sh](mailto:support@ppy.sh).

Make sure to include any chatlogs or other evidence in the email, and our support staff will look into your case and get it sorted for you.

#### What are these "Me!" pages that I see on other player's profiles?

> **Me! pages are special profile elements that all players with a [supporter tag](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/support) get access to. They can contain whatever you like - pictures of your achievements, your beatmaps, basically anything you wish!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Me! pages, or userpages, are special profile elements that all players with a [supporter tag](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/support) get access to. They can contain whatever you like - pictures of your achievements, your beatmaps, basically anything you wish!**
```

##### Prevent any new forum private messages from reaching you

> Go to your [account settings](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/account/edit) and click `block private messages from people not on your friends list` in the Privacy section. Private messages from users in your friendlist will still reach you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to your [account settings](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/account/edit) and click `block private messages from people not on your friends list` in the Privacy section. Private messages from users in your friendslist will still reach you.
```

##### Prevent any new forum private messages from reaching you

> Go to your [account settings](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/account/edit) and click `block private messages from people not on your friends list` in the Privacy section. Private messages from users in your friendslist will still reach you.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Go to your [account settings](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/account/edit) and click `block private messages from people not on your friends list` in the Privacy section. Private messages from users in your friends list will still reach you.
```

To upload your beatmap, go into the editor and hit `File` > `Upload Beatmap`.

This will make your beatmap available for others to download on the website. Updating a map is the same process for a map that has already been uploaded.

> Each user has a limited number of maps they can simultaneously upload. Leaving a map inactive for a month (28 days), by not updating it, will send it to the [Beatmap Graveyard](/wiki/Graveyard). To revive a beatmap from the graveyard back into a Pending or WIP status, all you have to do is update it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each user has a limited number of maps they can simultaneously upload. Leaving a map inactive for a month (28 days), by not updating it, will send it to the [Beatmap Graveyard](/wiki/Graveyard). To revive a beatmap from the graveyard back into a Pending or WIP status, update it.
```

> ##### The editor is telling me the beatmap you are trying to submit isn't yours!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### The editor is telling me, "The beatmap you are trying to submit isn't yours!"
```

Author: Thank you, ill fix this up tonight and have another read through it myself

To upload your beatmap, go into the editor and hit `File` > `Upload Beatmap`.

This will make your beatmap available for others to download on the website. Updating a map is the same process for a map that has already been uploaded.

Each user has a limited number of maps they can simultaneously upload. Leaving a map inactive for a month (28 days), by not updating it, will send it to the [Beatmap Graveyard](/wiki/Graveyard). To revive a beatmap from the graveyard back into a Pending or WIP status, all you have to do is update it.

##### The editor is telling me the beatmap you are trying to submit isn't yours!

**This can happen if the creator of the beatmap is not properly set within the beatmap files.**

> In the editor, click `File` in the menu, then `Open .osu file in Notepad`. Check the line `Creator:` under the `Metadata` section and make sure that it's set to your exact username, capitalization included.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In the editor, click `File` in the menu, then `Open the .osu file in Notepad`. Check the line `Creator:` under the `Metadata` section and make sure that it's set to your exact username, capitalisation included.
```

> If it isn't, manually change it for every difficulty in your beatmap set, reload the beatmap, and you should be able to submit it.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If it isn't, manually change it for every difficulty in your beatmapset, reload the beatmap, and you should be able to submit it.
```

##### How do I tell if my LEDs have corrosion on them?

> **Rubbing the base of the LED connectors with a small square of aluminum foil will remove most of the residue caused from corrosion.**

Reviewer 7: that's not how you spell.

```suggestion
**Rubbing the base of the LED connectors with a small square of aluminium foil will remove most of the residue caused from corrosion.**
```

Author: Oops, my mistake. Fixed this, as well as all instances of "Friendslist" as suggested. Thanks

5. Restart the game client if you made any changes to the release stream to apply them.
6. Reopen the game, enter `Options`, and click `Open osu! folder`.
7. Find the `Logs` directory in the window that opens.
8. Select the log file required (the support representative will tell you which), and attach it to your ticket or upload it to a public filesharing service.

### Event Viewer

#### What is 'Event Viewer' and how do I use it?

**Event Viewer is a built in component of Windows which can be used to find crash logs when osu! does not provide you with any. These crash logs can be used to help determine what is causing your issue.**

When having problems with osu! crashing, if osu! doesn't give you a crash log the only place to find one is through Event Viewer.

If a support team member has asked you to find a crash log in Event Viewer, here's how to do it:

1. After osu! has crashed, press `Win` + `R`.
2. In the run box type `eventvwr` and press Enter. This will open the Event Viewer.
3. In Event Viewer, on the left, go to `Windows Logs > Application`.
4. On the right click `Filter current log`.

> 5. 6. On the filter window that opens, make sure you have the Error box checked and press OK.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
5. On the filter window that opens, make sure you have the `Error` box checked and press OK.
```

6. Press `Ctrl` + `F` and type osu! in the find box. It will find the first crash log from osu!.

> 7. Go in to the `Details` tab, expand System and Event Data by clicking on each of them.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
7. Go in to the `Details` tab, expand `System` and `Event Data` by clicking on each of them.
```

Author: Thanks, changed all as suggested as well as couple other fixes

8. Copy the text from there and paste it in to your forum post.

### Frame Time Graph

#### What is the 'Frame Time Graph' and how do I use it?

**The Frame Time Graph is a feature of osu! that can help us gather more useful information on performance issues you may be experiencing**

When faced with tricky perofmance issues in osu!, the Frame Time Graph is a good tool to help us diagnose the issue at hand, and help you find a solution to the issue.

If a support team member has asked you to take a video or screenshot with the Frame Time Graph open, here's how to do it:

1. Open osu!.

> 2. Press `Ctrl` + `F11`. to open the Frame Time Graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Press `Ctrl` + `F11` to open the Frame Time Graph.
```

3. Trigger or wait for the performance issue to occur.
4. Take a screenshot by pressing `Shift` + `F12`. This will open a browser tab with the screenshot in it, copy and paste the link provided into your forum post.
5. Close the Frame Time Graph the same way you opened it, by pressing `Ctrl` + `F11`.

> If you need to record a video of this, you will need to download a video recording software and use that.

Reviewer 2: Is this line necessary?

Author: Probably not honestly. added it because I mentioned video above. I think I'll remove this.
